We use B-Trees as a typical example of mutable structure and Log-Structured Merge Trees (LSM Trees) as an example of an immutable structure. Immutable LSM Trees use append-only storage and merge reconciliation, and B-Trees locate data records on disk and update pages at their original offsets in the file.  
On a high level, there is a strict distinction between how data is treated inside a storage structure and outside of it. Internally, immutable files can hold multiple copies, more recent ones overwriting the older ones, while mutable files generally hold only the most recent value instead. When accessed, immutable files are processed, redundant copies are reconciled, and the most recent ones are returned to the client  

In-place update storage structures are optimized for read performance after locating data on disk, the record can be returned to the client. This comes at the expense of write performance: to update the data record in place, it first has to be located on disk.
Append-only storage is optimized for write performance. Writes do not have to locate records on disk to overwrite them. However, this is done at the expense of reads, which have to retrieve multiple data record versions and reconcile them
# LSM Trees
The LSM Tree is a variant of a disk-resident structure similar to a B-Tree, where nodes are fully occupied, optimized for sequential disk access.The LSM Tree is a variant of a disk-resident structure similar to a B-Tree, where nodes are fully occupied, optimized for sequential disk access .  
The word “merge” in LSM Trees indicates that, due to their immutability, tree contents are merged using an approach similar to merge sort. This happens during maintenance to reclaim space occupied by the redundant copies, and during reads, before contents can be returned to the user.
LSM Trees defer data file writes and buffer changes in a memory-resident table. These changes are then propagated by writing their contents out to the immutable disk files. All data records remain accessible in memory until the files are fully persisted
